Hello everyone and welcome back. In this module, we will talk about the AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner Certification Exam. The AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner exam is an entry-level certification offered
by AWS for individuals who want to demonstrate their knowledge of the AWS Cloud. This certification is a good starting point for those who want to build a career in cloud computing or AWS, and it is often recommended before pursuing more advanced AWS certifications. After nearly six years since its pilot release, the AWS
Certified Cloud Practitioner CLF-C01 exam is undergoing a long-awaited revamp. The AWS Training and Certification team is introducing a fresh and updated version of the exam, which will be called as AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner CLF-C02 exam. The last date that you can take the CLF-C01 exam version is on September 18,
2023. Meanwhile, you can take the new AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner CLF-C02 exam version beginning on September 19, 2023. You can start registering for this new exam version on August 22, 2023. As indicated by AWS, this update is a result of the job task analysis and reflects
the changes in the trends, the industry landscape, and the work practices of cloud professionals. There have been many significant changes and updates to the key AWS services and features over the past three years, and it's important for this exam to reflect those changes to ensure it remains relevant and valuable to the
organizations and individuals alike. Okay, and the great news is that it is not necessary to take the new version of the exam to renew your AWS Cloud Practitioner certification. Let's understand few more details of this exam.
The exam validates a candidate's ability to explain the value of the AWS Cloud. So they are expected to understand and explain the AWS Shared Responsibility Model. Understand security best practices. Understand AWS cloud cost, economics, and billing practices.
Describe and position the core AWS services, including compute, network, databases, and storage services. And finally, identify AWS services for common use cases. Even though it is not a hard requirement, AWS recommends that target candidates should have up to six months of exposure to the AWS cloud design,
implementation, or operations. This certification is ideal for candidates who are from non-IT backgrounds. These candidates might be in the earlier stages of pursuing the AWS Cloud career or might work with people in the AWS Cloud roles. AWS recommends the candidate to have basic AWS knowledge on the AWS cloud concepts,
security, and compliance in the AWS Cloud, core AWS services, and economics of the AWS Cloud. Let's understand what the candidates will be able to do after passing the Cloud Practitioner certification exam. They will be able to explain the value of the AWS Cloud.
They will be able to understand and explain the AWS Shared Responsibility Model. They will be able to understand security best practices. Understand AWS cloud cost economics and billing practices. Describe and position the core AWS services, including compute, network, database,
and storage services. And finally, identify AWS services for common use cases. Now, what is out of scope? Tasks such as coding, cloud architecture design, troubleshooting, implementation, load, and performance testing are out of scope for the intended candidates taking this exam.
Let's understand various details about the exam. The exam includes total 65 scenario-based questions, and you get 90 minutes to solve them. Out of these, 50 questions affect your score and remaining 15 unscored questions that do not affect your score.
These unscored questions are not identified on the exam, so you never know about those. Your results for the exams are reported as a scale score on the scale of 100 to 1,000. The minimum passing score is 700. Your score shows how you performed on the exam as a whole and whether you have
passed or not. The exam uses a compensatory scoring model, which means that you do not need to achieve a passing score in each section. You need to pass only the overall exam. There are two types of questions on the exam.
The multiple choice that has one correct response and three incorrect responses, which are also called distractors. And the second type is multiple response. It has two or more correct responses out of five or more response options. Select one or more responses that best completes the statement or answer the
question. Unanswered questions are scored as incorrect. There is no penalty for guessing. The exam has a pass or fail designation. You don't get to know your exact score. Your score report contains a table of classification of your performance at each
section level. So you just get to know whether you passed or failed. An email of your result will be promptly sent to you after a few days of the exam, and the complete score report will be available to your AWS certification account afterwards. If you fail the exam, you can retake it after 14 days.
Exam fees for each attempt is 100 USD plus applicable taxes. Once you pass the exam, you will not be able to retake the exam for two years. Certification is valid for three years. After that, you need to recertify to keep your credentials valid.
You can take this exam by visiting the Pearson Vue testing centers, or you can take it online proctor exam format. Let's have a look at the different domains and the domain-wise weightages for this exam. As you can see, the cloud technology and the services domain has the maximum
weightage of 34%, followed by the security and the compliance on 30%, cloud concepts domain at 24%, and the last one, the billing, pricing, and support at 12% weightage. Let's quickly understand how these weightages are different from the earlier version of this exam, that is CLF-C01.
The new CLF-C02 exam domains aren't too different from the original exam version. The first two domains, that is Cloud Concept and the Security and Compliance, are still the same. However, there have been adjustments in their weightage assigned to them. In the CLF-C01 version, the Cloud Concepts exam domain has a weightage of
26%, while the Security and Compliance has a weightage of 25%. But in the new exam, the Cloud Concept domain will now take up only 24% of the exam, and the Security and Compliance domain has now whooping weightage of 30%.
On the other hand, the last two domains, original CLF-C01 exam, have been renamed into Cloud Technology and Services, and it is given 34%, whereas the last one, that is Billing, Pricing and Support is given 12% weightage. Each of these domains carry a specific percentage weightage within the exam.
Each domain also contains a series of task statements that call out specific required knowledge and skills. These are outlined in the official AWS exam guide, which you can access from this link here. Okay, so now let's start by taking a look at each of these domains in more detail
to give you a better understanding of the topics that will be covered on the exam. Domain one, that is Cloud Concept. This domain accounts for 24% of the exam content and focuses on four key areas. Define the benefits of the AWS Cloud. Identify design principle of the AWS Cloud.
Understand the benefits of the strategies for migration to the AWS Cloud, and understand concepts and cloud economics. Next, we have domain number two, that is Security and Compliance. This domain accounts for 30% of the exam content and focuses on four components of
cloud security. That is, understand the AWS Shared Responsibility Model. Understand AWS cloud security, governance, and compliance concepts. Identify AWS access management capabilities and identify components and resources for security. After that, we have domain number three, the Cloud Technology and
Services. This domain accounts for 34%, which is the maximum of the exam content, and has the key areas like defining methods of deploying and operating in the AWS Cloud. Define the AWS global infrastructure. Identify AWS compute database, network, and storage services.
Identify AWS artificial intelligence and machine learning-related services and analytical services. Identify services from other in-scope AWS service categories. And finally, we have domain four, Billing, Pricing, and Support. This domain accounts for 12% of the exam content and assesses you in three areas,
such as compare AWS pricing models. Understand resources for billing, budget, and cost management. And finally, identify AWS technical resources and AWS support options. Okay, so in conclusion, the AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner CLF-C02 exam serves
as a crucial stepping stone into the world of AWS and cloud computing. With its focus on foundational knowledge and concepts, this certification paves the way for a deeper understanding of AWS services and best practices. As you embark your journey towards AWS certification, remember that success begins
with a strong grasp of the fundamentals. The CLF-C02 exam equips you with the knowledge needed to navigate the AWS Cloud effectively and sets the stage for further specialization within the AWS ecosystem. And finally, we at wish you all the best for your learnings and the
certification exam. That's all for now. I'll see you in the next module in this course.