Hello everyone and welcome back. In this module, we will explore the exciting world of cloud computing.
Today we will learn about this revolutionary technology that's transforming the way businesses across the globe operate. So what exactly is cloud computing?
Cloud computing is a revolutionary approach to it. Resource delivery facilitated through the internet and characterized by pay as you go pricing. Unlike the traditional mode of acquiring, owning
and maintaining a physical data centers and servers, cloud computing enables access to a spectrum of technology services, including computing, power, storage, and databases on a flexible
as needed basis from the providers like Amazon Web Services, A-W-S-G-C-P Azure, and many more organizations across the diverse sectors, irrespective of size
and type, are leveraging the cloud for multitude of use cases. These range from the essential functions like data backup, disaster recovery, email,
and virtual desktops to more advanced applications, such as software development and testing, big data analytics and customer facing web applications. Notably, healthcare companies utilize the cloud
to develop personalized treatments while financial services companies employ it for real-time, fraud detection and prevention. Video game developers leverage the cloud
for efficiently delivering online games to a global audience. Cloud computing offers significant advantages to businesses, including increased agility, cost reduction,
instance scalability, and the ability to deploy globally. Within minutes. With cloud services businesses gain rapid access to a diverse area of technologies, fostering faster innovation
and the creation of a wide range of applications from basic infrastructure services like compute storage and databases to domains like the internet of things, machine learning and data analytics.
Everything is moving onto the cloud. Why is that so? Well, one of the key reasons for moving to cloud is the ability to deploy the technology services swiftly,
reducing the time from ID conception to implementation. Significantly. This agility allows for experimentation and the testing of new ideas, enabling business to differentiate customer experiences
and transform their operations. For instance, integrating machine learning and artificial intelligence into applications become more feasible leading to personalized customer experiences
and enhanced engagement. Cloud computing eliminates the need for substantial upfront investment in hardware, offering a shift from capital expenses
to the variable expenses. Businesses pay only for the IT resources they consume, avoiding unnecessary cost associated with the unused capacity,
and also maintaining them once you are done with them. Real time access to cloud resources allows For dynamic scaling. Businesses can adjust their capacity instantly in response
to changing needs, so you can increase or decrease your resources as you need. Moreover, the cloud simplifies the process of expanding to new regions and deploying globally.
For example, AWS provides a global infrastructure that enables users to deploy applications across multiple physical locations effortlessly.
This geographical distribution reduces latency enhancing user experience regardless of the business's location size, or industry Cloud computing liberates it from the complexities of managing infrastructure
and data centers, allowing a sharper focus on the core business priorities. So get ready to soar to new heights with cloud computing for which your business will definitely thank you,