Hello everyone and welcome back. In this module, we will explore different delivery models in cloud computing.
There is no doubt that cloud computing has revolutionized the way businesses manage their IT infrastructure, offering scalable on demand solutions that enhance efficiency
and flexibility In the context of cloud computing, a delivery model refers to how cloud services are provided to the users by the cloud vendors. There are several cloud computing delivery models,
each offering different levels of control, flexibility and management responsibilities. The three primary delivery models, namely and infrastructure as a service known as IAAS platform,
as a service known as pass software as a service, also known as SaaS form the backbone of cloud computing. Let's understand them one by one. But before delving into these delivery models, it's crucial
to understand the concept of on-premises deployment. In an on-premise model, the organization hosts its corporate assets within its own facility or data centers
maintaining essential services like email servers, file sharing, and employee directories in-house, while providing autonomy on-premise deployment demands. Substantial effort to upkeep.
To illustrate on-premise deployment, consider the analogy of preparing a homemade pizza. Much like buying ingredients and managing every step
of cooking on-premise deployment requires organizations to handle all aspects internally, making it a labor intensive approach. We can consider ingredients as hardware, equipment,
et cetera, furniture as storage space, location, et cetera, and cook and bake activity as it and maintenance activities. So if you need to eat the pizza, we will need to take care of all of these stages.
Quite a lot of things to do, isn't it? Now, transitioning to infrastructure as a service IAAS model, it offers a pay as you go model where third party providers, such as Amazon Web Services
or Google Cloud, deliver infrastructure services like storage, virtualization and servers over the internet. IAAS provides flexibility, scalability, and cost effectiveness by eliminating the needs
of organizations to invest in and maintain onsite hardware resources. However, challenges may arise in the terms of security concerns and potential network
and service delays. To understand this particular model better, let's go back to our PI store analogy. While you will still provide the dining table
and bake the pi, the pre-prepared ingredients represents the infrastructure provided by the cloud provider, simplifying the overall effort for the organization.
Moving on to the platform as a service, PAAS, this cloud computing service not only offers hardware and Software, but also delivers an integrated platform to users through an internet connection pass caters
to the developers, allowing them to ride, deploy, and maintain code without dealing with software updates or hardware maintenance. Amazon serves as an example of a prominent pass,
providers facilitating communication and exchange between buyers and sellers. Examples of pass include Amazon Web Services, elastic Beanstalk, Google App Engine, et cetera.
Pass advantages provides cost effectiveness, rapid development, scalability, and faster market entry for developers. Limitations involve language
and tool constraints as well as potential migration issues. Comparing PAs, again, back to our PISA scenario, with the PI already baked, you only need a dining table representing the simplified approach of pass,
where primary components like server storage and security are provided and the organization only needs to bring its data. Now. Okay with that, finally, software
as a service SaaS is the most comprehensive cloud computing service, delivering entire applications managed by a provider users access applications through a dashboard or API, eliminating the need for installing
and running software locally, software updates, bug fixes and maintenance are handled by the cloud provider. Examples include our very own Gmail, Google Docs, Microsoft Office 365,
and customer relational management services such as Salesforce SaaS offers a universal accessibility, collaborative capabilities and vendor managed computing resources.
However, drawbacks include portability issues, internet performance concerns and compliance restrictions. In our pizza example, to conceptualize SaaS, it's all about going to the nearby pizza restaurant
to dine-in Everything from the dining table to the pizza and drink is already provided. Representing how SaaS furnishes all the underlying components, making it as simplest
and the most user-friendly cloud model. In the cloud computing domain, Amazon Web Services AWS stands out offering IAS Pass and SaaS cloud delivery models.
Other major players include Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud platform, and IBM Smart Cloud, just to name a few, each contributes to the broader landscape
and cloud computing with its unique offerings and applications. So in this module, we saw how these cloud computing delivery models,
namely I-A-A-S-P-A-A-S and SAAS exist each with its complexity and level of organizational reliance. The hierarchy of models from on-premise to infrastructure
as a service platform as a service, and software as a service demonstrates decreasing level of organizational involvement making, managing it of the numerous organizations across the globe.
So much hassle-free and easier. That's all for this module. I'll see you in the next one.