Hello everyone. Welcome to this module. The purpose of this module is to show you how to set up your own free tier AWS account. So let's get started. So firstly,
you need to go to aws.amazon.com/free url. Then you'll see a landing page like you can see on your screen. So firstly, you need to sign up using your email address that you want to use for your a w s
account. Then you need to verify your email address for that. A W SS will send you verification code on the inserted email address later. You need to create your password and make sure it's really a strong password. Next, you'll have to give the a w s account name.
After filling all these things, you need to add your contact information, like your phone number and address. Next, you need to add a payment method, like a credit card or a debit card number, expiration date,
and the card holder name. Later you need to verify your phone number. Once you mention your phone number, A W SS will send you a verification code to verify the phone number. After that, you need to choose an A W SS support plan.
A w S has three support plans. First is basic, second is developer, and the third is business. After completing all these tapes, you need to wait for the account activation. After you choose a support plan,
a confirmation breach will indicate that your account is being activated. Usually the accounts get activated within a few minutes, but the process might take up to 24 hours. However, when your account is fully activated, you receive a confirmation email.
You need to check your email or the spam folder for the confirmation email. And once you receive this email, you will have full access to all the a w s services. Now we are on the a W S website.
In order to create a free tier a W Ss account, let's just go to aws.amazon.com/free. From here, we can create AWS free tier account. But before that, let us see what are the types of offers.
In total, there are three types of offers. First is always free, second is free for 12 months, and third is trials. Scroll down a bit and you can see free tier details. Here are the filters for tier type and the product categories.
Let's drive with trials. So for Amazon SageMaker we have free trial for two months. For Redshift, we have free trial for two months, we have free trial of 15 days for Amazon inspector.
For Amazon Light Sale, we have three months free trial and so on. And here we have over five pages. Now let's go with always free for Amazon Dyna DB 25 GB of storage is always free for Amazon Lambda.
1 million requests per month are free. Now let us try with 12 months free, you'll get free seven 50 hours per month for Amazon. E C two five G B of S three.
Storage is free for 12 months and five g b of storage for Amazon. E F Ss is free for 12 months and so on. If you want, you can go with product categories as well. Let us try with compute. Once you click on compute,
you'll get to know what are the free tier products available for the compute services. That is easy to a w S Lamina, Amazon Light Cell and Amazon Elastic Container. Similarly, you can do this for the other product categories.
Now let us just click on create a free account. First you need to sign up for a w s. Here you need to mention the user email address and a w s account name.
Let me mention my email address here I will mention the A W SS account name and if you want to change this account name, you can do this letter. After you sign up in your account settings now click on
verify email address. On the mentioned email address, A W Ss has sent one verification code and I'll just mention it here. After entering the verification code, click on verify it's you. Your email address has been successfully verified.
Here you need to create a root user password. Let me just enter my password here. You will need to confirm the root user password. You can see this is a five step process. Now you can click on Continuum.
Next, you need to add the contact information. How do you plan to use a w s for the business use or your personal? Let's go with personal. For your own projects, the full name here,
you will have to enter your phone number and in the country or region you need to select your country. You need to mention your address, your city and the state where you reside. And at the end you need to add the postal code.
Once you mention all the tapes, you need to select this check box that states that I have read and agree to the terms of a w s customer agreement. Now click on continuum.
The next step of the process is billing information. Here you'll have to enter the credit or the debit card number, the expiration date, the cardholder's name, C V V, and the billing address. You will have to answer, do you have a pan or not?
Now, one really important thing you might be wondering, we are setting up a free tier a w s account. Then why is it asking us for the billing information like credit or the debit card number? That's because at the end of the free tier period,
that is 12 months for the many A W SS services. As we saw, A W Ss needs a way to bill you for the a w S services that you use and if you use some of the services during your free trial period that exceed the limits that we just saw,
they will bill you. This is why they will ask you for the billing information like credit or the debit card details. Once you fill this up, click on verify and continue. The next step would be to confirm your identity.
A w s will ask you how to send you the verification code. You will have two options. First would be text message and the second would be voice call. You need to mention your country, your mobile number,
and for the security check you'll have to mention this code over here. Once this is done, click on send s m s. Once you receive the verification code, you'll have to mention that code over here. Once that is done,
you need to click on continue. This is the last tape of the process here. You need to select a support plan. A w S has a basic support plan for free developer support
plan for $29 a month and a business support plan for a hundred dollars a month. One important thing is there are sometimes questions in the exam related to these three levels of support plans.
That's basic developer and business. So make sure you know the difference between these three support plans. We will select the basic support plan and click on complete signup. Then you'll receive this message. Congratulations.
Thank you for signing up with a W Ss. Now click on go to the A W SS management console. You will be redirected to this sign in page in root user email address.
You need to mention the email address with which we have just sign up. But the first thing that you want to do once you log in with your root user is to create another I am user Give that I am user admin access and then use that new user that you have created to do
all of your work. Don't use your root account. Save your root account for the work that you need to do to actually work on the infrastructure of your account and you'll definitely have to use M F A. That is multi-factor authentication for your root user.
It's a really common question in the exam about the root user and creating a different IM user. So the question could be something like this. You have just set up a new account for a client. You are the root user. What should you do with the root user account?
So the answer could be attach the multifactor authentication to that user account, create a new IM user and give that I am user admin access. However,
do not use the root user account for common administrative task, use the other IM users that you've created for those tasks. So this is how you set up a free tier AWS account. Thank you.