Hello everyone and welcome to this module. Today we will get familiarized with a w s Management Console. You can access the console on this u r L
aws.amazon.com. The prerequisite to this demo is that you should have a functional a w s account. So here you can create a new account. If you already have an account, you can log into it as a root user or any,
IM user with appropriate privileges. The A W SS Management Console is a comprehensive web application that includes multiple service console for managing a w s Resources. Upon logging in users are directed to the console homepage,
which grants access to each service console and serves as a centralized hub for all a W Ss related tasks. Furthermore, the console homepage can be trailered by adding, removing, and rearranging witches such as a w s Health trusted advisors and recently
visited. We'll be looking at all of these things in this particular module. The individual service console provides various cloud computing tools as well as details about account and billing. After logging into your account, you will see the console dashboard.
This is the starting point for interacting with the various a w s services and other important console components. The dashboard consists of a navigation bar at the top and the number of widgets in main body of the page, which you can configure and rearrange.
A W Ss keeps developing more widgets so you can further customize your console experience. We will start by taking a look at the navigation bar at the top. As you can see in the screen here, we have highlighted seven controls within the navigation bar here.
That is your account information, region selector support, notifications, cloud, shell Search box, and Service Selectors. Let's have a look at each one of them. A w s account information. The first highlighted menu contains information and links for your account.
It displays the a w s account ID with which you have logged in and the current user logged into the console. Here you can see the details about your account, including the address, contact, information, billing settings, and more. Then we have organizations in the account management service that enables you to
consolidate multiple A W Ss accounts into an organization that you create and centrally manage service quota also referred to as limits in a w s services are the maximum values for the resources, actions, and items in your a w s account. When a new account is created,
there are default values such as assigning five elastic IP addresses. These limits can be increased by logging a support ticket. You can use the billing dashboard page of the A W SS billing console to gain a general view of your a w s spending security credentials.
Links will take you to the A W S I AM users page in the I am part of the console where you can change your password and multifactor authentication generates A W S A P I keys and more. Now remember, based on the username and the privileges associated with that,
IM user that you have, you will have certain informations on these pages available to you and visible to you. For viewing and modifying settings will take you
to general settings configuration page. From here, you can manage console global settings such as default language and region, as well as preferences to optimize your console display experience Here itself. You can use the sign out button to log out of your account.
Let's have a look at the a w S regions. The regions menu shows the currently selected a w s region. Each service is hosted in a region unless it is a global service such as Im and uh, S three, the menu will display the currently selected region or global.
When you have selected a global service, the text consists of a region group such as US East in this case region name such as North Virginia and Region String, such as US East one.
When you click on a currently selected region, a dropdown will appear with all the available regions. You can switch to a different region by clicking on one in the list or use the scroll bar on the right hand side to see the full list of available options.
Next section is support. Under the support menu, you have support center where customers can submit a support case by providing details about their issue or question, and a w s support staff will respond with guidance or assistance.
Links such as Expert Help Repost Documentation training can be used to find answers to the customer questions through Contact US links. Customers can contact a W Ss support staff directly via phone, email, or chat or urgent or complex issues.
You can also provide your feedback through the feedback link. Next we have notifications. The A W SS notifications menu on the console provides a way for a W SS customers to create, manage, and view notifications for their A A W S resources.
The notifications can be configured to trigger based on specific events or changes in the customer's a w s environment. You can also create a new notification, customizations and those kind of things here by clicking on this particular
button. Next we have Cloud Shell. By selecting this icon, you will launch a browser-based shell environment that is pre-installed and pre-authenticated with your console credentials. Use this to execute A W S C L I commands or script using the A W S C D K
from your browser. Now most of these, uh, C D K and most of these tools are pre-installed on clouds shell, so you don't have to install anything extra. If you add any files to the clouds shell up to one GBN limit.
It'll persist the files between the sessions. So Cloud Shell is a useful tool for securely interacting with your a w s account and is region specific. So any file that you upload are specific to that region.
The current region is displayed in Orange about the terminal. Here you can see this search is a quick way to find and navigate to services and resources that you're looking for when you enter text into the box. The underlying search engine searches across a number of different locations to
match the text that you enter. It'll return matches in eight different sections. Here, you can see here on this dropdown also. So you have services, features, uh, resources, blogs, various categories to search from.
Then we have a w s service selector. You can use this to navigate between services group by top level categories such as compute, which includes Amazon e c two, along with other services like a w s, elastic Beanstalk, Amazon Light Sale and those kind of things.
This is a great way to explore the various services by category, especially if you're new to a w s. You can also mark services as favorite by selecting the star next to their names. This will pin them to the navigation bar.
This can be done anywhere you see the star, including the search box, and that'll get listed under the favorite services. And then finally, if you want to go back to your console home from anywhere on the page, you can press this a w s button and it'll take you to the console home. Now,
once you go to the console home, you can see the dashboard also contains a number of widgets to help you get started with. We will have a look at the widgets that appear by default, but you can move and resize these or add different ones.
Three of the widgets provide you with the static links to learn how to build a solution or to explore a W Ss. So we have welcome to a w s Build a solution, explore a w s, uh, these kind of widgets. You have widgets like latest announcements, recent,
A W Ss blog posts and those kind of things to keep you updated with what is happening. Then you have applications widget. You can create those. The other five are dynamic and provide important information about your a w S services, so your a w s cost and usage best practices,
and then you have Trusted advisor and those kind of widgets. Let's have a look at some of these A W SS Health Information. Uh, this widget will give you information on events that might affect your A W SS infrastructure and account cost and usage widget.
Gives you an overview of the service cost with the breakdown of a W SS services favorites widget, a list of your favorite a w s services, which you have starred, which you have seen earlier. Recently visited a list of top recently visited services, um,
that you have used while, um, using the A w s Management console. Then we have the Trusted advisor, which gives us recommendations from the various best practices that a w s wants us to follow. Then we have build a solution, which gives you quick, um,
solutions for building applications. We can resize and move these widgets around the console home. Also, we can remove, if we do not want any particular widget, then we can go ahead and remove this particular widget.
We can also go ahead and add a widget. So it has given us some choices from which, uh, we can add, let's say we add Security hub and this one will be added at the end of our widget list and we can use it. As you can see,
it's added here on my console home. So in this module, we learned about the various parts of the a w s Management Console dashboard and how to use the dashboard to navigate to services and account and billing information, search for services, features, articles and guides,
and view your billing dashboard. That's all we have for this module. I'll see you in the next module.