Hello everyone and welcome back. In this module, we will understand the various support plans provided by a W Ss. A W SS provides a range of support plans to cater to various customer needs from
individual developers and startups to enterprise level organizations. A W Ss support plans offer a combination of technical support access to a w s infrastructures and tools and assistance for architectural guidance. They help customers achieve operational excellence, improve system performance,
and troubleshoot issues effectively, a w s offers five main types of support plans, each with different features and levels of services. Let's have a look at them in the suite of support plans that are provided by a w
s. The first is basic, the default plan for all users, which is free. This plan is recommended if you are experimenting or testing with a w s. The second plan is developer, which is intended for individual users familiarizing themselves with a w s who
would like technical assistance periodically. This plan is minimum recommended tier. If you have production workloads in a w s developer has the lowest subscription fees. Next is the business plan,
which is designed for companies with multiple accounts running production environments or business critical workloads. In a W Ss business has a higher subscription fees. Next is Enterprise on Ramp Plan.
Recommended if you have production and business critical workloads in the a w S. Then finally comes the enterprise plan. Enterprise Plan is designed for companies with multiple a w s accounts running business critical, large scale production environments.
Enterprise has the highest subscription fees. Now let's have a look at different features of each one of these support plans and compare them. The first feature is called Customer Service and Communities. All plans basic through enterprise have 24 by seven access to customer service,
A W Ss documentation, white papers, and the a w s support forums. Next, we have best practices provided by a W Ss trusted advisor. All plans have access to a w s trusted advisor checks. Basic and developer plans have six core checks related to a W Ss best practices
business and enterprise plans have access to all the trusted advisor checks. Enterprise Plan gets prioritized recommendations curated by your a w s account team. Then we have the health status and notifications. All support plans have access to the personal health dashboard,
which monitors the health of the a w s services in regions and availability zones, and notifies you of any issues that could affect your account. In addition to dashboard accesses, business and enterprise plans have access to the A W SS Health APIs.
As you can see in the chart here, then we have technical support. There is no technical support provided for the basic plan. However, you can raise account and billing questions and request service quota increases. All other paid plans receive technical support with primary contact called
Technical support manager t A m, but the availability of technical support, the options to contact technical support and the level of support technicians vary for each plan, like prioritize, support,
and access to the Slack support app is only provided to your enterprise accounts and business accounts. Next is programmatic case management. It's not supported for the basic and developer plan. However, business and enterprise plans can do this programmatically.
Using A W Ss support a p i, then we have case severity levels and response times when opening a case. Each plan offers a different variety of severity levels and receive different response times from a w Ss.
We don't cover each severity level individually here. Instead, let's focus on the highest case severity level available for each plan and a w s agreed response time for that severity level. The highest severity level available to develop a subscription is system
impaired, and the A W SS will respond within 12 hours to these cases. The basic level doesn't have any of these supports for business subscribers. The highest severity level is production system down and the a w s respond within one hour to these cases. For enterprise on RAM subscribers,
the highest severity level is a business critical system down and a W SS will respond within 30 minutes to these cases. For enterprise subscribers, the highest severity level is business mission critical system down and a w s will respond within 15 minutes to these cases.
One quick note about case response times. The agreed response time only applies to the initial response to the a w s from each case. Next, architectural guidance basic account has no support.
Developer business and enterprise plans all receive technical support, but the level of review and guidance provided by a W SS varies for each support plan. As you can see here on the chart, the developer receives general advice. The business get the case specific.
Enterprise On Ramp receives the most specific guidance, which includes consultations with a w s on design as well as architectural review and an assigned account manager. But this is limited to one per year. Whereas Enterprise gets all of this support and which is unlimited for them.
Basic and developer plans don't get third party software support. It's only for the business and enterprise plans. Proactive programs and self-service support at Launch is available at the business plan for the additional fee, but is included at no cost for accounts.
With enterprise support plan, the remaining support services such as a w s incident detection and response technical account management training account assistance are available under the enterprise plans only. From this comparison,
we can understand that enterprise customers receive dedicated A W Ss staff to help them with their support issues and also reviews of their operations process and system architecture. In addition to the added training materials, let's have a detailed look at the pricing of these plans.
The pricing of a W Ss support plans depend on the plan you choose and your monthly a w s charges. Basic support is free for all the a w s accounts. Developer support costs $29 per month or 3% of your monthly a w s charges, whichever is greater. For the business support,
it costs you a hundred dollars per month or 10% of your monthly. A W Ss charges for the first $10,000, then 7% of your monthly a w s charges from 10,000 to $80,000 5% of your monthly a w s charges from 80,002 to 50,000,
and then 3% of your monthly a w s charges over two $50,000. So it depends on your usage. Also, enterprise on RAM cost $5,500 per month or 10% of your monthly A W Ss charges, whichever is greater.
Enterprise costs $15,000 per month or 10% of your monthly a w s charges for the first one $50,000. Then 7% of your monthly a w s charges for one 50 to $500,000 range. 5% of your monthly a w s charges from 500,000 to
$1 million and 3% of your monthly A W Ss charges over $1 million. Now, you can also purchase add-on support plans for specific a w s services, such as Amazon relational databases, Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud, or e C two.
These add-on support plans provide additional features and benefits such as 24 by seven support for specific services, priority response for critical issues, and access to specialized support engineers. For more information on a W Ss support plan pricing,
you can also refer to the link, which is flashing on your screen. Now, how to choose a right plan. The best a w s support plan for you will depend on your specific needs and requirements. If you're a small business or individual developer,
basic support plan may be sufficient. If you're a large organization or need more specialized support, you may want to consider developer support, business support, enterprise on ramp or enterprise support. To choose an a w s support plan,
you can consider the following factors such as the size and complexity of your a w s environment, the level of technical support you need, your budget, your preferred communication channel that is phone or chat or email. You can change your A W Ss support plan anytime. To do this,
you can sign into your a w s support plan console and select the plan you want to switch to, and that's very simple. So in this module, we understood that a W Ss support plans offer varying levels of technical assistance, response times,
and features to cater to their different customer requirements. Consider your organization's needs and priorities to make an informed decision on the most suitable a w s support plan that it requires. That's all for this module. I'll see you in the next one.